Uh, good evening, everyone. Good evening,
sir. Okay.
25 participants has joined till
now. Let
me...
So I have shared you the program. All of you have (clears throat)
executed?
We tried it,
sir.
Ah.
Okay. So the screen is visible to you?
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir. Okay,
fine. So today's topic is
policy improvement. Okay. So
let me open up what is called...
(clears throat) For policy improvement, what do
we need?
Go back and see. So till the last
class, I have finished up here, that how to evaluate a policy.
So we had two policy. One is greedy, another one is careful
policy. For both of them, I have shown you how to evaluate
them. (clears throat) So
(clears throat) you can see after running the policy evaluation, the
careful value, uh, careful policy is giving the value for
being into the state, start state is 0.4, and here
in the case of greedy policy, it is 0.3,
okay? So once (coughs) policy
evaluation has run, it will
find out the value for each and every
state. So you get these kind of
values for
careful policy and for greedy policy, you get these kind of
values. Now what should you do? You need to
do some updation of your policy so that
you will get a new policy, and with the new policy, you
can do the again policy
evaluation.So this
updation of policy and then policy evaluation, this will go on
for, uh, till the time you do
not find any more new policy. So that is what is called
policy, uh, iteration algorithm.
So a policy iteration algorithm have two step.
Once- f- first step is you start with any given policy,
any random policy, then you evaluate that
policy. After evaluation is terminated, you will get this kind of
value for each and every cell. After
finding out the values, then you do a policy update.
Policy update means the action that you want to
take in each and every cell, you have to just
change a little bit
into some of the cell. You do not change all the cells at the
same time. You change one or two cells, or
maybe two to three cells, not more than that.
Some of the actions to be changed on only on two to three cells,
okay, so you get a new policy.
That new policy, again, you run policy evaluation.
Policy evaluation will find out the s- value for living in particular
cell under the new policy. Again, with
the new policy, you will have to change some little bit of
actions in a particular or two or three number of cells.
You get a new policy, again, you run policy evaluation.
So that is what is the job of your
policy iteration algorithm. Okay?
So now I'll show you
what is a policy iteration algorithm, then I will come up with the mechanism
for doing that. Okay? So,
uh, is the algorithm shown over here? No.
So let me just write it down
here.
So i- in the book also, it is written here.
If you read the book, in the next page
itself, see, we... Last class we have
finished up here. Once a policy evaluation is
completed, you will get the value for each and every cell under every
policy, okay? After that, your job is to do a new po-
finding of a new policy that will be improving your
value in each and every cell. So if we say that if I want
to compare between two policy, policy one and policy
two, how to compare? The mechanism is
finding out the value for living in each and every
cell. If the value, let's say policy two, each
and every cell under policy two has some value which
are greater than its corresponding cell in the policy one, then
we say that policy two is a better policy than policy one.
Okay? Now our job here is to find out a better
policy at every iteration. Okay? So
that is what is the call policy updation.
So for doing that, you can start
with
any random policy,
and then you update few of the actions in particular
two to three cells. You get a new policy.
Again, that new policy, you do policy evaluation.
(clears throat) You get the value for each and every
cell,
okay? And then
you
change one or two cells' actions, you get a new policy.
But how do you find out which are the
cells where you want to change the
actions? That is direction. Okay, so you cannot find it all
randomly, the particular cells in which you want to change the
actions. You cannot do it randomly.
If you do it randomly, then there is no end of this algorithm, so we need to find
some kind of mechanism to do, to find out which
particular cell wherein I can change the
actions, okay? So here it is given, policy improvement,
how to do it. So
it is like you can evaluate many policy and rank them.
See, look at, you can evaluate any, many policy and rank them by the state value
function of the start state. After all, the number of
the, the number tells you the expected cumulative reward
the policy in question will obtain if you run many,
many episodes. Okay?
So if you change the actions in few
particular cell randomly, your algorithm is not going to complete.
Uh, I mean, it is going to be running for- forever.
So we need to come up with some kind of principal mechanism.
If you follow the principle, you will be ending up with a better
policy, with a guarantee that the new policy that you are landing up, that
policy will be better than the previous policy.
So what is that mechanism? That mechanism is called
Q-function, finding out the Q-function,
or in other way, it is called
state action
value function, okay? Currently we are, uh, till now, whatever we're doing is only
value function. Now we are going to do it the
value for being in a state and then committed
to a particular action. That is called Q-function,
okay?
So we need to find out the Q-function. What is it basically?
So the expression for Q-function is, let me show you the
expression.
Okay, so this part from here to here, this summation
is called Q-function.
Let me write it so that you can understand
clearly.Okay.
So
today's class is
about
...
(eight seconds)
Policy improvement.
What is the date today? 10th December, right?
So for doing that, we need the help of Q function.
So
the Q function is
... This is the definition. What is the, the literal
meaning for Q functioning? What is the value for living in a
particular state of S and having committed to a particular action A?
So to do that, what do we need?
We have committed a particular action.
We don't have a choice of action. We are taking one particular action
out of many possibility, okay? So there is no
need of writing this thingy, okay?
This part is not required. However, this part is required.
That is
probability of S dashed given
S, A.
Then multiplied by reward for this and then
gamma, multiplied by ... You are landing into
new state, right? A new state is
already having a value called V of S dashed. Okay?
So this part is not required. Right?
So this is called... So this part I'm making a
cross. This is not required. Only this is required.
So this is called Q function. Okay?
So in other way, we will have to find out
this, this particular quantity for every state.
Okay. And how to do that? Just y- last two classes, if you have followed, this part
only we required. Okay? So you start with ...
For, uh, iteration one,
I mean, the initial is basically ...
Initial V of zero, so initialization for every
state is going to be zero. After that, you
find out your policy evaluat- you run your policy
evaluation, so it is going to be running like this
for ... It is an infinite loop, which is in
C++ writing. So first
you randomly initialize any
policy.
So you
pick up any random policy, this function, you run it.
Then
for this random policy, you make ...
This is your pi, your pi is
this, then you do policy evaluation
...
for
this pi.
Okay? So anyhow, this should not be here.
Random policy will be initialization.
This will be here in the beginning stage. Then you run this.
This pi will be adjusted after that, so I need to erase this.
Okay.
So your pi is basically
random policy.
After that
...
Well done.
And did you explain them all the
process?
Yes. So after that, you do a policy evaluation
...
for this pi policy and your
environment, whatever is there in environment, okay?
You do the policy evaluation. After that, you do a policy
improvement. So policy improvement will return a new
pi.
So it will, it will require a policy
improvement. This algorithm, I'll show you what is policy
improvement.
Policy improvement will take the argument of the
existing policy
with the same environment. Okay? So you get a new
policy,
then you set this pi
to be new policy.
Run this. Okay, before run, before running ...
Um, before setting up this, you need to check whether
What is the difference between them?
So the difference between them is ...
If they are
not equal, if they are not equal,
then you need to run through all this loop again.
So if they are not equal,
you continue. And if they are equal, you do a breaking.
So just let me write the
condition.
So this and these are equal, then you need to
break, need to come out of this loop. That's it.
Okay?
Else-You just set
pi to be new pi,
and run the loop again so loo- your follow-up is
closing here, okay. So this is how, this is the algorithm
called policy. The whole pro- this algorithm is called policy
iteration algorithm. We call it
policy
iteration.
Okay. Just give me a
second.
I have not shown how to do the policy improvement, okay.
The policy improvement mechanism is like
this.
That is, once you find out
your
Q function,
so your Q function is
probability of
landing in the state of S dashed, given that you are into state of S and
committed to st- action A, multiplied by reward
for that,
gamma,
V function for landing into new state of S.
This is Q. Now, the new policy is
basically,
the new
policy,
policy also denoted by pi.
So this is nothing but for every state,
that means policy is basically, it takes only one argument, that is what is a
state. For every state, it will pick up
the
argument, it is called argmax, the
argument
of the function
QSA, for which this QSA is the
maximum. So it is called argmax of this, okay.
In other way, your policy is written like
this. This
argmax
of, argmax means the argument
for which the following function is taking the maximum
value. So this argmax, let's say I'm not writing it here, I'll just
write this part, the expression, whatever
written here, I will write it them and then we will
show you exact, this expression as written in the book
also. Argmax for this,
probability of S dashed given S,
A, reward plus gamma
multiplied by
V of S dashed. Okay.
So this one, this is the
expression for
policy.
As I said, policy takes only one argument, that is the state for
which you want to find out the action, okay.
Now, look at in your PDF of the
book,
this one. Right? The same, same
thing. So this is what is called policy improvement
equation.
Right? You look at here, and here, both are same mean.
Only thing is I have not given here, I have not
given here two argument. That is, in the book it is,
in the book it is this.
That means given the state of S, you have committed to st- action A,
the particular state of S. You are transitioning to new state is called
S dashed, and the transition is obtaining a reward called
R. Okay. So that I have not included here, because
if I want to include that, then this summation is over S
dashed.
Okay. This summation is over S dashed, there may be
something called
variable reward. So you might be transitioning to
a state, why they have given
this summation is because
if I assume this summation to take
place... Erase
this.
If
I ask you- Uh, sir, can you take back to the previous page for a
second?
Yeah, I'll just go back. Wait a minute, let me complete this.
In that case, this summation has to be over two index, one
is S dashed, another one is R, okay.
And that is what is written in the book.
Look at here, this summation is over two variable, S dashed and
R. That means, if you do a transition from S to S
dashed, you will not be getting all the time same reward.
You will be receiving a reward which is variable reward.
So all the variation is going to be taken care here in this summation.
Okay, so which step I need to go back? I think it's B.
Uh, so the previous page of the whiteboard.
Okay. Previous page?
Hmm.
Yes, sir. Got it.
Got it. Okay, so if you have any doubt, you
can ask, uh, I mean, even for other student, they might be having that
question in their mind.
Ritu, one time after this, you please recap one, two,
three, four, whatever we did from the beginning because there are many
terminologies. Uh, after this, maybe next class
before beginning the class.
Mm-hmm. Okay.
A short recap, sir.
Okay, fine.
Anyhow, today's class is only about this thing, so let me just recap
whatever I did for last two days. Today's class is about
only this thing, then I will show you Python program if time is there, okay?
So whatever I did from the last two to three days is
basically this thing.
Okay, first was
the
physical meaning
of...
Physical meaning of...
value function, okay, value is a state dependent function,
okay? That equation is basically
this thing, value for being in a state is this
summation over
all possible action you can take under the state of S, so you have to
account for this under all possible actions, so this summation will be worth
A. Once you have chosen a action,
then you might be landing into many
states. That is given S dashed,
okay? So once you have chosen a action, that means
given a state of S, you have chosen action A, you might be landing into
multiple states, so you require to take care of all the possibility of
states through this summation. After you're landing up to new
state, you are going to receive a reward, plus
gamma multiplied by
value available
previously available of the state of S
dashed. Okay?
This is what we have done. It's called policy valuation.
So it is happening iteratively, so value,
function obtained at the
Kth iteration-
Okay.
... has to depend on K minus one. Okay?
This we have done it, last class, last two classes.
And
I'm gonna check to make sure enough time.
Um, but, so let me just-
Someone is talking over phone.
Let me put my phone where it's fine.
You can sum them.
So, uh, so again, the K and the S dash is always very
confusing, sir. So K-
Yeah.
Yeah. ... is, I mean, so if we see state-wise, S is the previous
state, S dash is the next state-
Hmm.
... and K is the current iteration, K minus one is the...
I mean, these are two different dimensions of activities.
So, sir, uh, that's where I'm getting caught.
I mean, my brain is not synthesizing these.
I like-
K and this, right?
Yeah. These domains don't match up.
Okay. So it is basically... Yeah, yeah.
So it is basically for a- a- any, any
cell, let's say this is your four cross four grid.
This is your four cross four grid.
Okay. So you have this many number of
cells, so S is basically 16,
okay? And what is K? For finding out the value
for any state like this, okay, any state,
(clears throat) the value is going to be computed
iteratively, and (clears throat) that iteration count is given
by K. Okay? So
Vk of S, this is
a single value.
It is a single value. It is not a vector. Okay?
The single value is-
No.
... depending on the iteration index.
So this value is keep on increasing as the iteration goes
on. For every state the value is increasing
as the iteration goes on, okay? At some point of
time, there will be no difference between
Vk plus one for the same state of
S, okay? So they are going to be
same, Vk of S... There will be
no changes, so then we'll stop your L- policy evaluation
algorithm. This will no longer be running because you keep on getting the same
value again and again. Even though you keep on increasing the iteration
index, let's say around 1,000 value, 1,000 times you have done your
iteration. After that you will see there is no more improvement.
This called convergence has happened, so we'll stop this
policy evaluation.
Now you got
it?
Try. Try. (laughs) I'm sorry, sir. Oh.
Okay. So here you see that in this book itself-
Yeah.
... you will see that, uh...
Look at
here.
Before starting a Q function. This is the
last class I did, that is the policy evaluation for
two different policy. Okay, look at here, the line it
says-
Oh.
The state value function for this policy, for this greedy
policy, converging after 66 iteration.
After 66 iter, there's a K value
is coming up after 66. After that at the 67th iteration,
the VkS is no longer changing.
Okay?
Right, sir. So there is
a- And here it is. And here the K value is 546.
... 5... Uh.
So 546 times-
So there
is a- ... you have to run this algorithm if you have this kind of
policy.
Right, sir.
Hmm.
Sir, there's a table also, uh, I mean, the values which we used to do by hand,
these people in the book-
Hmm.
... abo- above, they have made it in a table.
So the other question was that, um-
Hmm.
Hmm. ... why do we start from state 14?I mean, that box 14 we started
all the time.
Okay. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Fine. So it is like this, the
value gets propagated from the goal state to
the start state.
Uh-huh.
Because the, uh, when K is equal to one-
Yeah.
... when K is equal to one, all of the states which are not 14, all of these
states, their value is zero.
That you have seen in last class.
Yes, sir.
After that you take for one more iteration, then this value
will get propagated and this function will...
I mean, the cell value for the 14-
Hmm.
... is going to be increasing its value.
So at K of two, rest all states apart from this 13
and 14, everybody's value is going to be zero.
Uh-huh.
This value is keep on rising for every cell.
It is not going to be decreasing under the condition that there is no negative
reward.
Uh-huh.
The values are keep on rising and...
Uh, there is some point of time where there is no change of values for every
cell.
Uh-huh.
That is what is called policy evaluation has terminated at that point of time.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Sir, uh, sir, I may infer in the other way also, sir.
Like we know this reward for reaching the goal state.
So you told me that, uh, uh, the reward will be there for the terminal states.
So in this four cross four grid, either the start state or the goal state will
have the reward. Next, intermediate status will not have any rewards.
So even if it start at state two, instead of 14-
No. No.
What did you say? ... I know that the previous-
Start state and goal state-
So, and the goal state-
... will have the reward. Uh-huh.
Yes, sir. And intermediate states, we don't have any reward. Reward is a zero.
No. No. Start state also don't have any reward.
Okay.
Only
So because when you... Only goal has a-
Uh-huh. Yes.
Okay. Because since we know the goal state reward, no, then we'll...
The, because of that, we can able to info 14 and thereafter we can able to go for
filling up other details. So that's why we start with 14.
Hmm.
Right, sir?
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay.
Because the value actually i- i- it is like you are playing a chase game.
Yes.
Until you complete, uh, your game, like either winning or losing, you don't
receive any reward, right? Same thing happens until you
go and complete your, uh, episode, you don't receive any reward because
if you are completing in any intermediate states, you will not
receive any reward. Only when you dis- go and hit the goal state,
you'll receive a reward. So the value will propagate from the goal state
onward.
So now we have all the values of the given four cross four grid, then we can
say it's won, uh, iterations completed.
Uh... We can say policy
evaluation for that particular policy has completed.
Yes, completed.
Hmm.
Because my question was that when you say arg max-
... so like, uh, we have, we have for one iteration or one policy, we have a
how... Uh, we have the values for all the states.
So accordingly, it will compare, uh, each and every state
and we'll see the values given in each and every cell, and which has the
maximum value. So that policy will be taken as, uh, these
things are-
Hmm.
Yes. ... as the policy improvement.
Yeah, you are coming near to the an- an- a- analytically.
The only thing is some of the gaps of word that are missing.
That is, uh, which particular (clears throat) action is
producing the highest value.
Value. Okay.
That action we have to choose under that particular state.
Okay. Understood, sir. Okay. So
each-
So terminology
is- Is that... Oh, no. Understood.
Uh, so the terminology is the iteration is referring to
how many times you are running inside a particular algorithm.
The algorithm can be a policy evaluation.
The algorithm, uh, yeah, policy evaluation
only, um, because policy improvement is a one
iteration job. It doesn't require more than one
iteration.
I will show you it here.
So policy improvement, what does it mean?
Once you have got a policy evaluation done, this policy evaluation will
take many iteration, like 546 iteration.
To converge, to converge means under this particular
policy, the cell value
living in this particular cell, the value is not going to
change anymore. That is called convergence. Okay?
So policy evaluation will run for many iteration and then policy
evaluation will be converging. After that, you change a
very little... I mean, uh, you change one or two
cells, not more than one or two cells.
You don't change every cell.
All the actions, okay? So one or two cells you just change either from this
action to some action like upside.
And for this cell, you might change the action from downside to
this side like that. So that is called policy
improvement. So for doing policy improvement, it doesn't
require more than one iteration, because once you have got the
value function computed, okay, you use those value
function
to find out the Q function. So Q
function, let's say I want to find out the Q function for this cell,
okay? I will write it down here so that you
understand.
Let's say I want to find out using the
value, uh, you can see
that... Let's say this is my... Under this cell, I'm
going to do, okay? So this cell value is
something, the nea- neighboring cell is here under the action
of right-hand side. So let me... This is 0.43,
okay? So here. Now,
Q value
for the cell, cell number, I don't know.
This is state is S. The action is right-hand
side action, so capital R.
So for doing that, I'll be finding out this
S dashed under-... is comma
capital R, reward plus gamma
multiplied by value
computed for the state of S dashed, okay?
Now what is your cell number this thing?
It will be zero, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine. So this is nine cell, okay?
So
that is called
Q function value, or R is going to be this one.
How many... What are the possible
next state under right action? It can be here, it
can be here, it can be here, okay? Okay.
So
if I go and occupy this at nine, ten, so that is going to
be, hmm, probability of getting into 10
state given I have nine
R, this reward is zero plus gamma
multiplied by
value function for 10,
okay? Plus
probability that I may get into
this cell. This cell-
Six state, sir.
Hmm, six state. Uh- In any case, it is going to be zero. ...
four, five, five.
Yeah.
Huh? So you- Uh, zero. ... you reduce, uh, you reduce four
value from here, right? Four,
one...
Let's see. One, two...
What was the state number? Six-
Six. Six, sir.
Uh, six. Then this, this.
Zero plus zero, okay? This
plus,
and then you can get into this cell also. What is the cell number?
13 number, okay? 13. So 13.
Given nine comma R, what is the reward?
Intermediate state reward is zero.
What is the
value available to the state of 13?
It is non-zero,
okay? This is non-zero value, this is non-zero, this is non-zero.
Okay, now what is this coming up to be?
This probability is 0.33
multiplied by the gamma factor is
0.99, multiplied by value function for 10,
for 10 cell, 0.43.
0.43
plus this part.
Again, 0.33 multiplied by, this is zero
plus of gamma, gamma is 0.99,
multiplied by the value function for 13,
0.588.
0.588, okay? Do the
summation, you'll get some non-zero value, okay?
That is just Q value for this under the action of R.
Similarly, you need to compute Q function for
this under the action of L. You will get
some
X, Y, Z value, okay? Similarly, we will get
this line under upside action, you will get some
Y value.
Sir, why we are selecting nine here, sir?
Just for example.
Okay, sir.
Just for...
Here you get a Z value, okay? Then your
policy,
the new policy called pie dashed, under the state of
nine, is going to be
maximum
among...
this is something value, okay? So let's say this value is
denoted as P. Now P is already used, so let's say
it is denoted as...
So it will be max of P comma X comma Y comma Z, sir.
Yeah. A, B, C, D, E, let's say it is
B, okay?
It is B, okay? So here,
BX, this value is B, okay? You can f- uh,
you can calculate and tell me the value of the find.
That is this. Out of all of this, which is the
maximum? So that is going to be the action which is producing the
maximum among them, okay? So
pie dashed at a state of nine is going to be action,
that particular action which is producing the maximum among all of these
thing, okay? So that is what is called your policy
function. Your new policy you have got it using
argument maximum.
So, sir, then this policy will be running for all the cells, like
16 cells it will run.
Ah, yes, yes.
And then it will pick up this is the-
Yeah, so-
... policy. Yeah.
Yeah, so it is this thing, your...
It is already written here, this one.
This is going to be running for each and every cell,
and each and every cell, how many values are there?
Because you have four actions-
Four
values. ... so you have four, uh, four values in there.
Four values.
Out of those four, which is the maximum?
That is your action that is producing the maximum
value. Okay? An example
But that would be per cell?
Hmm.
Right. So per cell, it will be... it won't define the, uh,
policy or the action for the entire-
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Y- y- yeah, here it is written. Look at.
If I have this policy, careful policy, the Q
function will be returning these values.
It doesn't require more than one iteration, because it will use the
policy evaluation, that means the cell value for living in
every... What is the value for living into every one of this cell?
That value is a single value. Okay, so now you are going to use
those values to find out the Q value.
Q value is going to be four values under each and every cell....
because this
standing for upside, this one, okay?
Right.
Let's say I'm staying in this cell. There's a start cell.
I'm living in start cell. In the start cell, if I take action on the upside, I will
get 0.39.
Hmm.
If I take a left-hand side action, I will get the value of 0.41.
If I take the action right-hand side, I will get the value of 0.4.
If I take the action in the downside, I will get
0.4. Among these, which is the maximum?
That is given in the red color. Okay?
Look at for every cell. Whichever is a red color, it is the particular
action that is producing the highest value.
So these four values is called Q function.
Q function means, what is the quality? Why it is named as Q?
The, if their name is Q, is basically what is the quality for me
to live in a particular state and having committed
to a particular action. Okay?
V function stands for a single value.
It says that, uh, what is the value for me to live in a
particular state? In other
way, if you multiply all of them with their
respective order of 0.25, th- this summation,
they will come up to your,
uh, value function.
Okay. So that is, uh, your value function and Q
function. Once you got your Q function, then you
apply this argmax condition, and you will get it, and this
what is called greedy policy over careful function.
So now,
if you look at this,
the... this is the policy, careful policy, you have evaluated
it. The value evaluation is showing over
here. The value evaluation is showing over
here, okay? This is a careful policy.
This is the value evaluation,
policy evaluation. You use those policy evaluation
values, then you compute the Q function value
here. Then you are going to find a new
policy out of the careful policy. The new
policy is generated in this property. Like, look at here.
I'll start from here. My action was on the right-hand side before
I do the Q function updation, okay?
Uh, before I do the updation based on Q function.
So Q function is prescribing me that if I take a downside action, I will
get 0.76. So as a result, this cell will
have a downside movement. So this is the new
policy generated out of the careful policy.
Right?
For look at this, this cell, this cell, the right-hand side is
given the highest, 0.59, so it will remain the same.
It was right-hand side here. Here also, the right-hand side in the new
policy. Fine? Now, look at in this
cell. This cell is left-hand side.
It was originally in the careful policy.
After I do the Q value function... Q function computation, the
left-hand side is having 0.43. So this
0.43 is going to be remaining the...
This is pointing to the left-hand side, so this left-hand side here, this left-hand
side, there is no change in the policy.
Now you look at in this cell. This cell in the careful
policy, it was having upside movement.
After doing the Q value computation, which one
is having the highest? Look at here.
Left-hand side is 0.26. Right-hand side is
0.26.
So these are two equal value produced by left or right.
So you can choose any one of them. They have chosen left-hand
side. So this is a new
action, so the policy is different.
So here, previous it was upside. Now it is on the left-hand
side.
Sir, why, uh, uh, l- uh, left-hand side only,
sir? Both 0.26 and, uh, left and right
is, uh-
Hmm, you can choose right also. No problem.
No, any specific reason of selecting left?
Any... No, no, no, there is no specific reason.
Okay.
Since bo- both are producing same value, you can choose any one of
them.
Yes.
Okay? So this is a improved policy that we are
getting. And look at here and here, this
policy. Almost all of the cells in the first row, all of
them are having the same direction. No change.
Here, no change. In this cell, there is a change, in this
cell. The change is now here, so this is a one
cell. The other cell, where there is a change here,
that is the state number 14.
So this cell and this cell, there is a change of action,
direction. The rest all of them are remaining same.
So it ensures that you change very little bit, and you get a better
policy. Then you do the policy evaluation for this new
policy. Once you do the policy evaluation,
you will getting a new value function.
You use them to apply the Q function argument.
You will be getting, again, four values in each and every
cell. Among them, you pick up the highest (clears throat) value
produced
for that particular action. That action is going to be your new
policy.
Okay? So this will go on forever, and here is the Python
program they have shown.
Okay? This is the Python program. Right now, I'm not going to
explain you. It is same thing. I have a, mm,
I have a (clears throat)
policy improvement for this, which I have run it
half an hour before. So look at here.
Under the same four cross four grid of frozen lake
environment-The last class
I have shown you, your policy evaluation, the same sheet I'm
using, so I'm having
policy evaluation. Look at this policy evaluation, last class I have
explained you. If I run this policy evaluation, I
can find out the value for living in every state.
Then I'm printing the state value function under the
policy of pi. Okay.
So this is a state value, we got it.
Then after that we have a greedy policy, go get it
policy. The greedy policy, what is the value we are getting?
If I run the policy evaluation, I'm getting the start
state value 0.375. If I choose a
careful policy,
then I do a policy evaluation, then I do the
val- uh, st-st... Printing the state value function
for
this careful policy. Okay. Look at the start
state is having an increased value,
0.40.
Okay. Here is a policy improvement, a very small program, policy
improvement.
As I told you, there is no iteration required. You just...
You need to run for every state under that state, all
possible actions, whichever is producing the
maximum. Look at here, first I find out this value, and
then the action for which np.argmax.
That means it is the argmax function that I'm running.
So I get a new policy. New policy, I have got it as new pi.
After I got a new policy, now look at I run the policy improvement.
Once I run the policy improvement, I get a new policy of this
thing. Now, if I
do the print policy, look at here, this is the my new
policy. Where is your state number 14?
Has a downside movement here. Okay, look
at here, it is matching.
The state number 14. This is the new policy, I have got
it. State number 14 having a downside movement here, and
here also you can see, state number 14 is a downside movement here.
And, uh, state number 13 is having a right side movement
here. You can see this is
right side movement. Only state number six is having a left-hand side
movement. State number six is a
left-side movement. Okay. So I get a new policy, then I can
again, I can run a policy
evaluation for this new policy.
So I have a new careful policy. I, I do a policy
evaluation. Under the policy evaluation, these are the new
values I have got it. Look at now, the state
zero is now improved to be 542, 0.542.
Previously it was?
Under careful policy it was? Look at careful policy, it was
0.40. It has improved.
Okay?
We'll... In the next class also I'll show you the same thing, because
it will take some amount of time for you to understand and
then... So this is the policy iteration algorithm which I
have taken from this book again, the same
thing I have coded it up, okay? I have taken from this
book. First I do a random initialization of the
policy, okay? After initialization, I, I store this
old policy, I run it for the
policy.
I do a (sighs) I, I do a policy evaluation, then I do a policy
improvement.
After policy improvement,
I will try to check whether this new policy and the old policy, whether
they are same or not. Look at here, the same thing I have written it here,
in that class note also. Look at here,
I do a random policy initialization, then I do policy evaluation for this
random policy. I get a new policy by running policy
improvement over the random policy here.
Then I check whether they are the same policy. If the...
In that case, I will be coming out of the loop.
Else, I will redo the loop again by setting pi to
be new pi, and that is what is happening here.
Okay?
So I do a policy iteration. After doing policy iteration, look at
my state value function is
0.542,
is my new
state.
We can run it here. Run all.
We are almost ending the unit
one.
Oh, it has run it
on a new
policy and all. We look at the start state is at
0.542.
(sighs) Whereas if you look at the careful
policy, when I do a careful
policy, then I do one more time of updation of
careful policy, I get a new careful policy.
In that, what is that
state value function showing? Is 542 here and s-
14 value is 0.8628. Look at
here,Yeah, so five
four two here, it's also exactly, I started here with a random
policy. Look at policy iteration, I'm running policy iteration.
In the policy iteration, I'm starting with a random
policy. From random policy, it is converging to a
careful policy, and the new careful policy,
okay?
So that is why I tell you the moral of the story of reinforcement
learning is
never be greedy.
Look at here. I always give
this example in my B.Tech classroom
also.
Policy evaluation, right.
Yeah, so this, uh, yes. So
here, this is a greedy policy, okay?
If you look at here, I want to reach the goal state from the start state.
What I will do, go here, here, here, here, here, and here is the goal
state. By taking this
action, it is a greedy action, because I want to reach the goal state at a minimum
possible number of, uh, time
step. Okay? So what is the value I get?
0.0342
by taking this policy. Whereas if I go and do the many
trial, trial means I'm exploring the world, I'm exploring the
nature, in that case, look at here, you are
hitting the wall, you are hitting the wall, hitting the wall,
and it is an unbiased environment.
That means if you are choosing this section, left-hand side, with 0.33
priority, we're really taking the left-hand side, 0.33 priority we'll be going to
the offside, 0.33 will be going to the downside.
So it is a unbiased. I don't have any more weights for any particular
direction of action. So it is a unbiased environment, and
there is no reward for landing into intermediate state, and
landing into whole state is zero, zero.
Only I get a reward after I go to goal state.
So this is a completely unbiased environment.
Under this unbiased environment, reinforcement learning is showing
you that
if you do lot of exploration of the world, this thing is
value for remaining in the start state is 0.4 here, and if you take a
greedy action, value for remaining in the start state is 0.03.
Okay? So irrespective of your, uh,
whatever religion says, try to not to be
greedy. And it is scientifically also been
proven here. It is all opportunity coming to your
life
after many sequential decision that you take it.
Okay?
So this is a real proof of why
greedy algorithms or greedy
mechanisms or greedy mindset
is not good for the long term.
Uh, can I infer that using this Q function, I'm able to optimize
the careful policy?
Hmm. Yes, yes, right.
Yes, sir. The second thing, sir, uh, w- what is that, uh, how much I'm
getting this optimization, sir? Like, uh, when we compare this, uh, go get
policy and careful policy, we have number of iterations and we have the percentage
of goal to reach.
So with this, uh, uh, Q function implementation, how many
iterations we are able to reduce, and what is the percentage of, uh,
increase, uh, escalation as in this, in the percentage, how much we are able to
reach the goal state? So that, uh, also can be shown in this
course, so we can compare.
Yeah, yeah, you can show, you can show.
You are not going to reduce your iteration. Okay?
Iteration is applicable to only when you run the policy
evaluation.
Okay, sir.
When you do the policy improvement, it is only one iteration, because
under, it is a nested for loop of two things.
First one is the number of states. Under each and every state, you have so many
possible actions. So it is this for loop is going on based on number of
states and number of action. It is not going on forever till you do a convergence,
okay? It is not like that. So you are going to save
your, mmm, iteration, that is a wrong
concept.
Okay,
But you can improve your
policy by the help of Q function, and that improvement
is shown over here.
That improvement is, look at this s- this was my
careful policy, this is my new careful policy.
You have a value function for running for every cell, you get the value
function. For this also you can run the value function.
Difference between these value function here, cell by cell, step
by step, will give you the improvement of your new
policies. This is what is shown over here, look at.
This is your new careful policy. Okay?
In that, these two are shown red, right?
Only these two cell has change of direction of
action. For doing this new policy
evaluation, you get some value. That value
is shown over here, 0.5420 over here in
the new policy. Okay? This is a new careful policy.
Here left hand side, here downside.
And look at your old careful policy value function.
Start state was having 0.40,
0.40. Here under the new Q
fun- uh, new, new careful policy start state value is
0.54. Difference between them is
0.1341,
okay?
Yes, actually, sir, sorry, sir. Uh, actually I was just seeing down below that this
policy careful can result the goal state to 73%.
Hmm.
Okay. So this is the thing, uh, which we have this to reach on time
for the goal state.
Hmm. Hmm.
Whereas in the
careful policy, uh, we would have somewhere around 50%, uh, so-
so this is, uh, we are able to beat this.
Uh-huh. This percentage means the old value minus our new
value divided by old value percentage.
The difference between, uh, any this new value, this
0.74, minus of its old value, divide by the old
value.Take 100 percentage, you will get some percentage
computation over here for this data.
That is the percentage of improvement.
Y- Yes, sir. Then how come... We will come to know that our policy has now
optimized. We n- don't need to move forward?
So this policy, uh, evaluation algorithm is going to be
converging only when there is no change in your
new policy. Look at policy. I'm calling here policy evaluation,
okay?
Yes, sir.
This policy evaluation, I'm calling every time to get
a evaluation for the policy of
pi. So that is the value returning, this V function,
this V value, okay? This V value,
based on this V value I'm running policy improvement, I get a new policy, pi.
So this old pi and new
pi, this old pi and new pi, i-
it is same, then this policy iteration is going
to break. If it is not same, it will
get into the... This is a while loop, okay? This is an infinite loop.
It will keep on running.
O- Okay. Y- Yes.
Thank you, sir.
Hmm.
Okay, so I'll share you this, uh,
file. I'll share it to TA. They will upload
it. Okay? So you get everything. And almost we are
reaching the end of the unit one. This is
completion of almost unit one. However, Saturday we'll complete
it.
Yeah, sure, sir.
Okay, sir.
Hmm.
Okay.
Goodnight.
Goodnight, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Saturday will be less loaded because this will be just revision of all this thing,
and, uh, only one algorithm remaining.
That is called value iteration, which is a subset of this algorithm,
again.
So almost like, uh, one month is over for you for this c-
course, this 10th of December. When did you
start this course?
17th.
November 17th,
right? Okay.
We are going on time. No problem.
The practical applications of this one, so that we can
understand better?
Practical application. Practical application I will show you after I
complete, uh,
model-free algorithm. Then I'll show
you.
Module three.
No, no, no. Model-free. These are model-based,
model-based algorithm. There is something called model-free
algorithm, okay, after that I... Again,
after model-free also not possible too much, but I will try to show you.
The real application is on the robotic side.
But if you want to see the application on language modeling, basically
ChatGPT is using reinforcement learning.
For you, I mean, for me to show you, that i- is going to be
somewhat tedious, because I don't have a GPU to
show you all this.
Uh, any fraud detection case also you have to do
better, sir.
Fraud detection?
Yes.
No, f- for dete-
Transaction fraud or any such things.
No.
Sir, this room cleaner?
Huh, room cleaner? Yes.
Robotic application you can a- apply this.
For fraud detection, there is something called, basically you are having lot
of time series data. Suppose you are into,
mm, you are protecting a website or a whole network.
There are a lot of, uh, lot of normal traffic coming in.
Normal traffic have its, having its own behavior.
That is, the packet size is not too much high.
And, uh, the amount of interaction with the server is not
too high. He's not going to be directing all the
time. But those who are actually, uh,
malicious traffic, they, once they get
access to the network, they will try to exploit many
computers within the network. So their session,
uh, timing is much more higher. And their traffic,
uh, characteristics, like the burst size, like, I am also talking to you
about this Zoom session, but
that is... A regular interval packet is
flowing, okay? And all of the packet size is going to be almost
similar. So it is not a malicious traffic, but for the malicious
traffic, once they get to understand the behavior of the,
all systems, they launch a attack.
And that time, they're having some kind
of high volume of packet going at a particular amount
of time. That is going to be b- detected as a
malicious behavior. But that, those will not be detected by...
I mean, it doesn't require reinforcement learning.
It can be detected by many existing algorithm.
Okay? I can tell you some of the algorithms.
Like, this called, this domain is called anomaly
detection.
If you are interested, I can tell you some of the ideas for doing that.
I, I-
Yes, yes.
I had a paper published in IEEE Power Systems.
Uh, that is basically detecting the anomal- anomaly detection
in the power systems, power grid. It is in computer
network maintained power systems.
So there are a lot of anomaly generated.
We can detect that, okay?
Yeah, sure, sir.
Okay, so thank you. So you have to attend your quiz
on Sunday night by 9:00 PM. You have to upload both of the
classes note in a single file. Redu- reduce the file
size, upload it only one file for both of the class.
We'll do the uploading by, I think, uh, Sunday 11:00 PM, I think.
Okay?
Yes, sir.
Okay. Have a good night then.
Yeah. Thank you, sir. Goodnight.
Thank you, sir. Goodnight.
Welcome. Okay.
Thank you, sir.
Hmm. Thank you.
Close
it.